#summary The C Standard Library for AS3.

== Introduction ==

From the beginning, redtamarin added a bit of support for C-like functions and packages.

We were calling that "a more or less standard C library" ;).

Now, as we want to do the right thing, we want to provide as much support as possible, put things at the right place and avoid shortcuts if possible.

The main principle still is the same

if you have this in *C*
{{{
//C
#include <stdlib.h>

//char *getenv( const char *name );
char *test = getenv("HOME");
}}}

then you can have this in *AS3*
{{{
//AS3
import C.stdlib.*;

//public function getenv( name:String ):String;
var test:String = getenv( "HOME" );
}}}

<br/>
<br/>
these are the main reasons to do that

  # in general, C give you a low-level universal access to things<br/>wether you know `chmod` on the command line or you used `mkdir()` in PHP, Python, etc.<br/>you already used a bit of *C* somewhere.
  # building uppon this kind of low-level you can build bigger things<br/>in our case we will reuse `mkdir()` to define `FileSystem.makeDirectory()`<br/>maybe you want to build your own API or do things a bit differently<br/>if only you had access to `mkdir()`...well you have access!!
  # A C library help to port to AS3 other kind of libraries,<br/>either duplicate something you have seen done in Python or Ruby, etc<br/>or easily port a C code example to AS3.
  # it helps at the same time C developers coming to AS3<br/>and AS3 developers learning/reusing C.

<br/>
<br/>
But let's be clear, we are not saying we giving you a way to compile C to AS3 (if you need that use ANE or CrossBridge).

No, what we are saying is that we give you a way to integrates "C style programming and functionalities" into your AS3 program.

It is not perfect and have limitations, but when you want to build things for the command line and the server side it can come very handy.

== What do we support exactly ? ==

We plan to support

The *C standard library*
  * *ANSI C* (C89)
  * *ISO C* (C90)

with those headers:
  * `<assert.h>`
  * `<ctype.h>`
  * `<errno.h>`
  * `<float.h>`
  * `<limits.h>`
  * `<locale.h>`
  * `<math.h>`
  * `<setjmp.h>`
  * `<signal.h>`
  * `<stdarg.h>`
  * `<stddef.h>`
  * `<stdio.h>`
  * `<stdlib.h>`
  * `<string.h>`
  * `<time.h>`

and

The *C POSIX Library*
  * *POSIX*.1

with those headers
  * `<cpio.h>`
  * `<dirent.h>`
  * `<fcntl.h>`
  * `<grp.h>`
  * `<netdb.h>`
  * `<pthread.h>`
  * `<pwd.h>`
  * `<spawn.h>`
  * `<sys/ipc.h>`
  * `<sys/mman.h>`
  * `<sys/msg.h>`
  * `<sys/sem.h>`
  * `<sys/stat.h>`
  * `<sys/time.h>`
  * `<sys/types.h>`
  * `<sys/utsname.h>`
  * `<sys/wait.h>`
  * `<tar.h>`
  * `<termios.h>`
  * `<unistd.h>`
  * `<utime.h>`

and some non-standard things

All that represent the *clib* or *The C Standard Library for AS3*.
