#summary start here.
#labels Featured

Welcome to the *redtamarin* project.

[http://code.google.com/p/redtamarin/w/list list all the wiki pages]

Simply put, redtamarin is based on the [http://www.mozilla.org/projects/tamarin/ Tamarin] project
(eg. the Flash Player Virtual Machine) and allow to run AS3 code on the command-line.

But because Tamarin only support the AS3 builtins (Object, Array, etc.),
redtamarin add numerous native functionalities, so you can test if your program
run under Windows or Linux, or read/write files, or send data with sockets, etc.

Put another way, if Adobe AIR allow you to build desktop executable with a GUI,
redtamarin allow you to build desktop executable with a CLI.

=== Mission Statement ===

*To support the use of the AS3 language for cross-platform command-line executable,
as single exe either for the desktop or the server, as scripts for automation,
as tools for the Flash Platform community.*



=== Status ===

 * this project started because I'm a fan of [http://www.jsdb.org JSDB] but I prefer to write my code in AS3
 * then I thought why not make something like AIR but for the command-line
 * I started a bit shy in my corner without promoting the project at all, but it appears 600+ people downloaded it
 * getting somewhat better at C/C++ and having a huge needs for command-line tools in AS3 I started to rethink the project
 * I'm now completely dedicated (if not obsessed) to implement a lot of functionalities
 * there has been a drop of activity between october and december 2010 (new job)

=== Goals ===

 * the short goal of the project is to provide most of the C standard library (ANSI and POSIX) to an !ActionScript environment. - *DONE*
 * the medium goal is to provide specialized libraries to use sockets or database like SQLite etc.
    * FileSystem API * HALF DONE* (adding even more)
    * OperatingSystem API *DONE*
    * basic socket (stream, datagram, broadcast, client, server) *DONE*
    * (more to come)
 * the long term goal is to provide a native API that replicate some part of the Flash Player and Adobe Integrated Runtime ([http://www.adobe.com/products/air/ AIR]) API
 * I'm bad a documenting, so I'll try this time to document on the go and provide example for all the APIs
 * some people contact me by email, when I can I add features related to their needs

=== Sync ===

here the list of sync from [http://code.google.com/p/redtamarin] which is a mirror of tamarin-redux
 * *25/07/2010* tamarin-redux-e07844ed9e
 * *26/12/2010* tamarin-redux-d8b78be5b40f



=== History ===

At first I was using a mixed system to update from Mercurial and then sync to a local subversion repository and then sync to the google code project, then later I was using another mixed system that was mixing directories from both the Tamarin mercurial repo and this project SVN repo, both were not practical, hard to update.

Also, messing a little too much with the Tamarin source code, I ended up having dirty C/C++ code.

Since the Tamarin release *703:2cee46be9ce0* ([https://developer.mozilla.org/En/Tamarin/Tamarin_Releases 02/12/2008]), I decided to make it cleaner.

Now from redtamarin v0.2, the source code of Tamarin is fully sync'ed in this project repository, and as the C/C++ is better organized, update etc. should stay clean in the  futur :). *<-- this has failed big time*

As of *25/07/2010* redtamarin have taken a completely different approach
 * now we use the [http://code.google.com/p/redshell/ redshell] project to stay in sync' with [http://hg.mozilla.org/tamarin-redux tamarin-redux] (sync is done every week)
 * from redshell, we do an `hg archive` and overwrite the `/tamarin-redux` directory, see [http://code.google.com/p/redtamarin/source/detail?r=252 this change] for example.
 * etc. (TODO explain the other changes)

The code is currently tested and compiled on those systems:
 * Mac OS X 10.6.2
 * Windows XP SP3
 * Linux Ubuntu 8.04.3 Desktop
 * more to come (especially 64bit versions)

*contributors welcome!*, even if it just compiling on your system :)<br>
send an email `[my username] @ gmail (dot) com`